ENVIRONMENT

  Beto Alonzo:
  
    Again, the primary job of the Texas RRC is helping to ensure public safety and this includes protecting the water we drink and the air we breathe. Oil, gas, and 
    mining interest cannot be allowed to poison the citizens of Texas, and that includes by acts of negligence or profiteering. Texas is big enough to allow industry 
    to thrive without willfully polluting our great state.
    
    The Texas RRC can do much more for Texas communities in ways that deal productively with the competing interests of industry.  Gaining much needed jobs in a local 
    economy cannot be overshadowed by the need to protect the health and welfare of citizens.  As a specific area of interest, the exploitation of natural gas in the 
    Permian Basin cannot continue to be allowed to vent natural gas and methane without effective monitoring, and the vulnerable aquifer needs to be protected from 
    the very real hazard presented by fracking.
 
    
  Chrysta Castaneda:
  
    The industry acknowledges that climate change is real and that it is caused by human activities, including oil and gas extraction. Yet, our Texas Railroad 
    Commissioners refuse to acknowledge this reality and to do the things that would help us mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. By fixing flaring and methane 
    emissions, we can start to move the needle on the industry’s contribution to climate change.
    
    The Trump administration is rolling back our environmental protections across the board. Without a functioning EPA, we will need our state agencies to carry a 
    heavier load to protect our environment, including clean air and water. We need the Texas Railroad Commission to enforce the laws already on the books protecting 
    our air and water, including the laws against flaring of natural gas.
    
    Flaring is the intentional lighting on fire of natural gas at the wellhead. Operators do it because they want the oil, but the natural gas that comes up with it 
    is worth less than the costs of moving it to market. So, they simply light it on fire. The Commission has allowed this to the point that we now flare enough gas 
    that could be used to power Houston. Flared gas is a wasted resource, and the practice has been against the law for 100 years. Flaring decreases air quality 
    nearby and across the region and causes human health concerns. It makes no sense, and we can do something about it. Operators should be incentivized through 
    enforcement and other mechanisms to turn the flared gas into electricity on the wellsite, powering their own operations. We need a Commissioner who offers 
    solutions to stop the waste and pollution.
    
    Fracking a single well can use millions of gallons of water, and only a portion of that water is currently recycled. The Railroad Commission can promote the 
    reclamation and reuse of our water resources used in fracking operations.

PUBLIC SAFETY

  Beto Alonzo:
    The primary reason for regulating pipelines is public safety.  It is essential that the Texas RRC be both funded and given the freedom and authority to oversee 
    and enforce all State and Federal laws and regulations for the pipelines which fall under its purview. While industry may desire to see safety restrictions eased 
    as a means of maximizing revenue, the pipeline operators can not be allowed to compromise public safety for the sake of corporate profits.
  
  Chrysta Castaneda: 
    Unsafe gas transmission lines in Dallas have caused explosions and death. This is the result of antiquated equipment and pipes that need to be replaced. The 
    Railroad Commission needs to step up oversight of this issue and expedite replacement of defective equipment.
    
TRANSPARENCY

  Chrysta Castaneda:
  
    The Railroad Commission has zero to do with railroads, and everything to do with oil and gas. We should make its name, and its operations, more transparent to 
    everyday Texans. We should rename it and give it authority to balance all forms of energy, including renewables and clean energy.
    
ACCOUNTABILITY

  Chrysta Castaneda:
  
    Although industry is required to shut in or plug wells at the end of their life, many times this doesn’t happen. Taxpayers are left paying the cost to close up 
    a well that made millions while active. This can be stopped by requiring companies to pay into bonds early in the well’s life that pay the cost of closure at the 
    end of a well’s life
    

SOURCES:
https://www.chrystafortexas.com/issues/#issues
https://alonzo4txrrcommissioner.com/issues.html
